The Joe Rogan experience.
If you're a person who was advising a president or a governor,
how to fix an economically disabled community,
if you have a community that's always had a history of poverty and crime and,
uh, uh, you know, uh,
drug use and gang use in these communities. Like w w what would you do?
Like, how do you use this idea of like capitalism to fix something
that clearly requires some charity? It requires.
First of all, we can, we can stop making the problem worse.
We can decriminalize drugs and end the war on drugs.
Just like the war on poverty. It's backfired. The war on drugs is a failure,
right? People look in a free society. People have a right to,
to consume what they want to consume course.
Especially if they want to do drugs, let them do drugs, right?
And even if those drugs are harmful,
adults can make decisions and deal with the consequences of their decisions. So.
The legal alternatives are just as bad.
Right? But the problem is when you, when you have the,
the war on drugs and you, and you make it a crime,
now you incentivize criminal activity.
Because whenever something is illegal,
it's much more expensive than it would be if it were legal.
And now you create this huge profit opportunity for criminals to come in and
fill that demand, because people still want the drugs.
They just can't buy them legally through a reputable source.
The only way they can get them is illegally through a criminal. This is.
The best example of what we've created in Mexico.
The best example of that in Mexico, right?
And then what you do is you increase the cost of the illegal drugs.
So let's say there's a heroin addict, and now heroin is illegal.
And so heroin is very expensive. Well, where is this heroin addict?
And he get the money to buy that heroin. He goes out and steals. I mean,
most of the robbery is committed by drug addicts because they need the money to
buy their expensive heroin. Well, if heroin were legal,
it would be much cheaper and they wouldn't have to steal. Of course, you know,
we create all these other crimes.
I'm not saying that people shouldn't do heroin,
but they should be free to make a decision,
but they shouldn't have to Rob other people to, to support their habit. And,
and, and you know, and when you, when you, when you have heroin, when, when,
you know, when it's illegal and there's all these profits, you know,
that the drug guy, the pusher has an incentive that gets you hooked on it.
You know, I think it should, you know,
maybe you should have to go get a prescription for it,
where the doctor can try to talk you out of it. Hey,
are you sure you want to use this stuff? You know,
this is going to really hurt you. I mean,
do you really want to become an addict?
Here's some movies watch what happens to you. You know, I mean,
most people probably wouldn't necessarily make that decision.
If they were confronted with a lot of evidence that shows why it's a very
disruptive way to live your life. But so we got to get rid of the war on drugs,
get rid of the crime in that community. You know, you know,
th that's number one, but then as far as if you've got a lot poor people,
why are people poor? Right?
You're poor because they don't have the skills or they
can't earn enough money. They're not productive enough to generate income,
you know, above the poverty line. So if you have people who were poor,
the way to make them less poor is to increase their productivity,
right? One way obviously is through education when they're young.
But I don't think government education is a solution because I don't think
government education is educating anybody.
I think government schools are run for the benefit of the bureaucracy,
of the, of the school districts, of the, the, the teacher's unions.
I want free enterprise.
I want vouchers or private schools to compete for
educational dollars. Just the way, you know,
the cell phone companies are competing. You know, they,
they want me to buy their cell phone instead of somebody else's,
they have to make it better and they have to make it less expensive.
So let's have schools that are competing to be the best,
the opt for the best education, at the best value.
And we've got in these cities,
we've got these poor kids trapped and he's failed government schools.
They waste their time. They learn nothing. A lot of these kids graduate.
They're not even literate. I mean, they can't even do basic, basic arithmetic.
We need real education, but in the current state of the world,
those people don't have any other options. Those people.
Have any other options because the government has taken away that option.
But what is government.
Real time, but what do you do for them in real time?
If you have a guy who's in a lower income family and he has a seven year old
son, and that kid is going to school right now, like how, how,
how do you fix that right now? By making it, if we have private schools,
the kids could go there. They couldn't afford, right?
What if they couldn't afford five in schools.
For people who are really poor private schools would give out scholarships to
kids that have a lot of potential and their parents don't have the money.
But when the private sector educates kids, it's cheaper.
A lot of potential.
A lot of potential. That bothers me because like,
what if a kid doesn't have a lot of potential than he does,
he doesn't get an education cause he can't afford a school.
Not every, but let's say it. Let's say a kid doesn't have a lot of potential.
A certain type of education might be a waste that would be better off learning a
trade. Hold on. You might be better off learning how to do something.
Learn a trade.
Kid is seven. If the kid's in first grade and is seven,
how do you know whether or not that kid has a lot of potential? That's crazy.
Yeah.
Seven is, I dunno. Seven might be a little young. How would I.
Think the total tuition tuition.
In first or second grade is probably going to be less than in high school,
because in order to teach a second grader,
the teacher doesn't have to know as much as a teacher needs to know to teach a
10th grader.
So you wouldn't have to pay a second grade teacher as much as a 10th grade
teacher see the problem.
The problem in the government is everybody get paid the same,
whether they're a lousy teacher, a good teacher,
whether they're teaching a first grader or a high school,
they did this all based on seniority.
It's a crazy crackpot system that only the government could devise.
And it's only because they have a captive audience. The people,
the customers don't have a choice and the parents aren't even involved.
If the parents were actually writing a check and paying for the education,
they would make sure that kids did the homework.
They would make sure they were getting their money's worth when you get it for
free. I mean, you just, you don't take it for granted.
So we need real education for the kids that can benefit from it.
We need to get rid of the minimum wage law and all sorts of occupational
licensing laws and other things that the government does that prevent people
from getting jobs or starting businesses.
The government is creating all sorts of barriers,
artificial barriers that would not exist absent.